Hangzhou New Century Energy Environment Protection Engineering Co., Ltd is a subsidiary of Hangzhou Boiler Group, and it is an engineering company engaging in the city living refuse incineration treatment project as well as the equipment development, design, construction and operation. Now the company has an asset of 275 million RMB.

The company has a technical development and engineering service team, and 53% of the company employees have obtained senior technical titles. The company has undertaken the technical and equipment development work for several domestic refuse incineration treatment projects including high-tech national debt project by national development and reform commission, “Tenth Five-year Plan” 863 program by science and technology ministry, “Eleventh Five-year Plan” supported national scientific research program and national torch plan project. The company has possessed market competitiveness with the intellectual propertied II stage reciprocating refuse incinerating furnace grate technology and semi-dry soot treatment technology (double tower technology) as the focus.

Up to now, the company has completed the refuse incineration project constructions at Hangzhou Binjiang, Wenzhou Linjiang,Shenzhen Penghu, Guangdong Zhongshan, Guangzhou Likeng, Fujian Jinjiang, Jiangsu Taicang and Jiangsu Yixing. During the construction period of these projects, the company has accumulated rich experience in project design and running management and has continuously optimized and improved the available technologies and products. At present, the company has supplied 2×500t/d II stage reciprocating refuse incinerating furnace and HRSG to environment protection thermal-power project in Hebei Qinhuangdao, and such incinerating furnace is the national produced refuse incineration treatment equipment with the intellectual property and maximum single furnace capacity.

With the excellent technologies and good quality product and project, the company will provide the customers with advanced, high-efficient and reliable refuse incinerating project and good quality services.

Contact Legal representative：Nanping Wu General Manager: Ke Wang Company address: 6A East-tower Building, International Garden, No. 160 Tianmushan Road, Xihu district, Hangzhou Post code: 310007 Telephone: +86-571-88212091 Fax No.: +86-571-88212092 Company web site：www.chinance.com.cn
